Version control systems are a category of software tools that helps in recording changes made to files by keeping a track of modifications done in the code. 

Importance-
As we know that a software product is developed in collaboration by a group of developers they might be located at different locations and each one of them contributes to some specific kind of functionality/features. So in order to contribute to the product, they made modifications to the source code(either by adding or removing). A version control system is a kind of software that helps the developer team to efficiently communicate and manage(track) all the changes that have been made to the source code along with the information like who made and what changes have been made. A separate branch is created for every contributor who made the changes and the changes aren’t merged into the original source code unless all are analyzed as soon as the changes are green signaled they merged to the main source code. It not only keeps source code organized but also improves productivity by making the development process smooth.


Use of Version Control System: 

A repository: It can be thought of as a database of changes. It contains all the edits and historical versions (snapshots) of the project.
Copy of Work (sometimes called as checkout): It is the personal copy of all the files in a project. You can edit to this copy, without affecting the work of others and you can finally commit your changes to a repository when you are done making your changes.
Working in a group: Consider yourself working in a company where you are asked to work on some live project. You can’t change the main code as it is in production, and any change may cause inconvenience to the user, also you are working in a team so you need to collaborate with your team to and adapt their changes. Version control helps you with the, merging different requests to main repository without making any undesirable changes. You may test the functionalities without putting it live, and you don’t need to download and set up each time, just pull the changes and do the changes, test it and merge it back. It may be visualized as.